I have finished the bioinformatics pipeline for the 16 Farm dataset using QIIME2 needed for 
the stats section of the metabarcoding paper. Briefly, I have separated out the ZBJ amplicons, 
ran quality control, assigned taxonomy to these using a naïve Bayes classifier and created an OTU table. 
I decided to keep the analysis to one primer to make the tutorial as simple as possible. As the table was 
created from QIIME2 it is a little different from the classic OTU table. Column A contains the feature ID, 
columns B to HT contain the number of times each feature was found in each sample (e.g the first sample is 100)
 and columns HU-HZ give the taxonomy assigned to each feature. Finally, column IB contains the confidence at 
which the taxonomy was assigned to each feature. Please let me know if the information in the OTU table isn’t clear.

The OTU names are codes that represent each sequence. I agree that it would be better to change them to something more simple. 
They are all unique so they could be numbered from 1 to 3105.

This is the updated data, thanks for your patience with this. I used two classifiers (naïve bayes and vsearch) to assign taxonomy so we can 
compare the two methods (the OTUs have the same names in both files). I also took out the C1 control but included the U1 and U2 controls. 
From first glance it looks like the vsearch classifier was able to identify more classes and orders than the naïve bayes classifier so it may 
be better to use that data. What do you think?

I corrected this and used the Vsearch classifier instead of the naïve bayes classifier (as it is much faster) and it gives 2660 OTUs 
containing the classes Insecta, Arachnida, Collembola, Malacostraca and Branchiopoda and 16 orders. Does this sound better?
Originally I obtained the ZBJ amplicons from the full dataset by using Cutadapt to only retain sequences that had the ZBJ primers cut off. 
At the moment I am working on trying to separate the amplicons by primer before cutting off the primers so the readers only have the ZBJ dataset 
from the start.


As Andreanna mentioned the QIIME2 pipeline is quite different to the bioinformatics pipeline that was used previously. 
The QIIME2 pipeline may not be as powerful or accurate as the one used before which could be why it is giving fewer reads.

I notice that four samples (87, 287, 321 and 345) have zero number of reads. I guess it's also related to the problem you mentioned. 
It was just to let you know. 

We'll use the Vsearch classifier because it seems to be identifying more Insect orders and more OTUs to the order level (2275 out of 2889 
versus 1383 out of 2889 for the  naïve bayes -  the difference is quite big)  

